Full package review for v0.2.0 (#341)
epiverse-trace/epiparameter: vignettes/epiparameter.Rmd

The {epiparameter} R package is a library of epidemiological parameters, with classes to handle this data and a set of functions to manipulate and use epidemiological parameters and distributions. The package also contains functionality for converting and extracting distribution parameters from summary statistics.

::: {.alert .alert-primary}
### Use case 

An outbreak of a known or potentially novel pathogen is detected and key parameters such as delay distributions (e.g. incubation period or serial interval) are required to interpret early data. 

{epiparameter} can provide these distributions from a selection of published sources, such as past analysis of the same or similar pathogen, in order to provide relevant epidemiological parameters for new analysis.
:::

This vignette will provide a introduction to the data stored within {epiparameter}, how to read it into R, manipulate
the data, and the functions (and methods) implemented in the package to facilitate easy application of parameters into epidemiological pipelines.

> The {distributional} package is loaded as some of the {epiparameter} methods use S3 generics from this package.

Reviewer: I would suggest to cut this out. The user doesn't have to care about this.

> The {distributional} package is loaded as some of the {epiparameter} methods use S3 generics from this package.

Reviewer: I would suggest to cut this out. The user doesn't have to care about this.
```suggestion

```

Author: Thanks for spotting. This should have been removed after 1c52f7d8ccace4a679df911bf1b0c2c178d2036b.

```{r setup}
library(epiparameter)
```

## Working with {epiparameter} data

{epiparameter} introduces two new classes for working with epidemiological parameters in R:

- `<epidist>`: Contains the name of the disease, the name of the epidemiological distribution, parameters (if available) and citation information of parameter source, as well as other information.
- `<vb_epidist>`: A list of two `<epidist>` objects for a vector-borne disease. One for the human (intrinsic) distribution, and one for the vector (extrinsic).

### Library of epidemiological parameters

> First, we will introduce the library, or database, of epidemiological parameters available from {epiparameter}. The library is stored in the package as a JSON file and can be read into R using the `epidist_db()` function. By default all entries in the library are supplied.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
First, we will introduce the library, or database, of epidemiological parameters available from {epiparameter}. The library is stored internally and can be read into R using the `epidist_db()` function. By default all entries in the library are supplied.
```

```{r read-in-library}
epi_dist_db <- epidist_db()
epi_dist_db
```

> The output is a list of `<epidist>` objects, where each element in the list corresponds to an entry in the parameter database. *Technical note*: the reason the object does not look like a regular R list is because it uses a custom print method which will print a summary of the data to the console when there are more than 5 entries to prevent a large list flooding the console. When the number of database entries returned is less than or equal to 5 the print will look like a standard R list.
> 

Reviewer: The deleted text is a distraction to a user who doesn't care what's going on in the background. Maybe move it to the Design vignette?
```suggestion
The output is a list of `<epidist>` objects, where each element in the list corresponds to an entry in the parameter database. 
```

Author: Happy to remove this text as you propose. There is a similar point to the technical note already in the `design_priniples.Rmd`.

## Subsetting database

The database can be subset directly by `epidist_db()`. Here the results can be subset by author. It is recommended to use the family name of the first author instead of the full name. Only the first author will be matched when the entry is from a source with multiple authors.

```{r epidist-db-subset-author}
epidist_db(
  disease = "COVID-19",
  epi_dist = "incubation period",
  author = "Linton"
)
```

The results can be further subset using the `subset` argument, for example `subset = sample_size > 100` will return entries with a sample size greater than 100. See `?epidist_db()` for details on how to use this argument to subset which database entries get returned.

## Adding library entries and contributing to {epiparameter}

If a set of epidemiological parameter has been inferred and is known to the user but has not yet been incorporated into the {epiparameter} database, these parameters can be manually added to the library.

```{r add-to-library}
# wrap <epidist> in list to append to database

> new_db <- append(epi_dist_db, list(covid_incubation))

Reviewer: Would be useful to see the results.

```suggestion
new_db <- append(epi_dist_db, list(covid_incubation))
new_db
```

Reviewer: Maybe consider a `c.epidist()` method?

```

> Note that this only adds the parameters to the library in the environment, and does not save to the database file in the package. 

Reviewer: Here, would be useful to suggest what to do. Should they write the new db to disk?

```suggestion
Note that this only adds the parameters to the library in the environment, and does not save to the database file in the package. Hence, if you restart your R session, you will lose the changes. 
```

Author: On the point of writing to disk or contributing to the {epiparameter} database this has been raised in #304. I'll commit your improvement to the text and then work on how best a user can contribute or store an expanded database in the next version.

> The library of epidemiological parameters is a living database, as new studies are published we hope to incorporate these. Due to the large time requirement of searching for and recording parameters in the database we welcome others to add parameters by either making a pull request to the package or adding information to the contributing spreadsheet. These will be incorporated into the database by the package maintainers. See the [Data Collation and Synthesis Protocol](https://epiverse-trace.github.io/epiparameter/articles/data_protocol.html) vignette on information about contributing to the library of epidemiological parameters.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The library of epidemiological parameters is a living database, so as new studies are published we hope to incorporate these. Searching for and recording parameters in the database is extremely time-consuming, so we welcome contributions of new parameters by either making a pull request to the package or adding information to the contributing spreadsheet. These will be incorporated into the database by the package maintainers and your contributions will be acknowledged. See the [Data Collation and Synthesis Protocol](https://epiverse-trace.github.io/epiparameter/articles/data_protocol.html) vignette on information about contributing to the library of epidemiological parameters.
```
